# Self-Assessment Essays

## Ethan Hocker

For our senior design project, we will be creating a privacy focused, open source voice assistant. We realized that every one of our group members was uncomfortable with the way prominent voice assistants are able to capture our voices while we have little control over what happens to those recordings. We determined that the best solution to this problem would be to design a voice assistant that would operate exclusively on local hardware. Making our code open source will also allow for users to examine the code base and verify the trustworthiness of the code. Lastly, we decided that making an SDK or API will allow more technologically advanced users to expand on the voice assistant themselves, potentially adding custom functionality or functionality that our small team may not get to implement. 

This project will incorporate elements from several different classes that I have taken during my time here at UC. Running voice processing may be best done on a local server versus local hardware and this could require me to utilize knowledge I learned in CS4065, Computer Networks. Since we may decide to use a Raspberry pi, learning basic Python in CS2021, Python Programming, may also come in handy. Perhaps the most useful class will be EECE3093C, Software Engineering, where we were taught how to plan and execute software projects. Seeing as a lot of this may be a learning experience, proper planning and research will be vital. Software Engineering also discussed best teamwork practices that will need to be used to keep coordination.

My co-op experiences have taught me the most about how to function in a team environment. I just finished my fifth co-op, having completed two as a PLC engineering intern at Honeywell Intelligrated and three as a software engineering intern at Northrop Grumman. Through all of these different co-ops I have been mixed into different teams and types of projects. Moving around allowed me to work with different personalities and technologies. The ability to be comfrtable working in new environments with new people was something I have greatly improved upon since my first internship. My software engineering skills I learned during these experiences will certainly help as well, but it is the ability to adapt to different project members, requirements and technologies that I find will be the most applicable skills I will use for this project.

This project excites us because it fills a need for a product we all want in our lives. We all shared a desire to feel secure while using a voice assistant and this seems like the best way to feel secure. Being given the chance to create it and shape it the way we want to is very exciting. Our approach to designing this product will entail careful planning and research prior to implementation. We have already beguin researching hardware requirements and the existing architecture of other voice assistants. Making the right desicions in the current stage of the project is crucial to our long term success.

At the end of this project, we hope to have a working voice assistant running on our local hardware. The success of this project will be determined by how secure we feel using the product and whether or not its functionality is good enough to earn our usage. This will involve implementing some functionalities we want first, and then implementing other commmon usages. For it to be functional, it must have enough usages to warrant the effort required to set it up. Personally, I want to feel like I contributed to the project not only equally, but in a way that made my contribution unique. This could be something such as a unique feature or implementation I made.  


## Alex Vennemeyer

The purpose of senior design is to make a product that has usefulness in the modern day, and showcases the skills I and my team members have learned over the course of our academic study. This project can also serve as a learning experience, in which we are able to take on additional challenges in order to improve our individual and team skills. The result of our efforts in this class will most likely be a great example of work that can be placed on a resume, and demonstrated to potential employers. In addition, if the end result of this project is promising, then it could potentially be extended to solve real world issues. Overall I feel that there is a lot of potential to create something that is both interesting and useful.

I have taken many college classes that will be helpful in the design of this project.one such class is CS 4065 Computer Networks and CS . My planned project will involve pieces of software communicating over a network, and the concepts taught in that class will be helpful in implementing networked communication. Another Class that has been helpful is CS 2021 Python Programming. This class taught introductory python, and gave a good introduction to using the language for personal projects, or automated tools. The skills learned in that class will be directly applied in this project, since my group has elected to use python as the language for the software portion of our project. I also plan to utilize general knowledge from my Operating Systems (EECE 4029), Data Structures (CS 2028C), and Algorithms (CS 4071) classes.

I have also had the opportunity to learn a lot of helpful knowledge from my semesters as a co-op student. During my first internship at Western & Southern Financial Group, I had some great experience with agile development. My team also worked closely with the business customers of our product, and as a result I was able to see a lot of the business context of the development work being done. This context and operations knowledge will help my ability to contribute to the team organization, and product ideation process. While Co-oping at Quest Global Services, I did a lot of automation and tool development with python. This gave me experience with python and application design that will be very relevant to this project. My most recent Co-Op at ICR inc has given me some great experience dealing with networks, as well as some great mentorship in general development practice. I also have been able to develop a security perspective on my development that will be useful in addition to my other skills

A big motivation for this project was to create something that filled a gap in the current tech ecosystem. To this end we settled on the Idea of a Voice Assistant. While there are several voice assistants on the market from the big companies in the tech world, none of these options are open source, and most of them are hosted on the cloud. While this is not a bad thing on it’s own. There is a severe conflict of interest. Personal voice assistants must be listening for the user's voice at all times, and thus are recording in most rooms of a user’s home. In addition, any activity initiated through the voice assistant has the opportunity to be tracked. Furthermore the most popular companies that are responsible for these assistants like Amazon and Google are companies that have built significant portions of their business around the monetization of data. Because of this, there is no incentive for these companies to respect user privacy. In fact, there is a powerful incentive for these companies to completely ignore user privacy. In response to this issue, the members of this senior design group have set out to create an open source voice assistant that can be hosted locally by the user, and can provide the kind of trustworthy and secure service that we desire in a home automation ecosystem.

The goal for this project will be to create an initial prototype of this voice assistant system and provide a software developer’s kit for those who wish to develop applications on it. In order to manage project scope and determine adequate division of work. This group will use user stories and an agile project development methodology to define and manage tasks. Furthermore, the group has set up a weekly meeting time in order to have regular checking and discussions about the progress of the project. Using these methods, the group intends to have a working prototype of the system along with the infrastructure to develop 3rd party applications for our system by the end of the project.


## Brendan Link

The senior design project that I will be completing this year will be creating a privacy-focused voice assistant. Throughout my academic career, I’ve taken numerous courses which have introduced me to problems with privacy within technology. While voice assistant devices are cool to display and provide many useful functions, they come with multiple privacy drawbacks. For most consumer voice assistant devices, your voice data is recorded and sent to a 3rd party server to be processed. This means that your voice data is constantly being tracked and monitored by 3rd party companies, which can be an uncomfortable feeling for many. Additionally, these devices have microphones that are always on yet the code that operates these devices is proprietary. This means that there could be numerous bugs in the code running these devices that could be exploited to listen to any conversations happening in the room with the voice assistant. Because of these issues, my team and I will be creating an open source voice assistant that allows users to see all of the code and know exactly what is happening with their voice data. Additionally, the voice data will never leave the local network of the user which helps to make the device private and immune to 3rd party data leaks.

In order to complete this project, I’ll be able to rely upon the skills gained in numerous CS courses I have taken. One of the first courses that will be important was the “Security Vulnerability Assessment” course that I took. This course outlined a number of common security vulnerabilities and how to defend against them. Since security is a central reason for our project, these skills will be vital toward making a successful product. Another course which will be important to help successfully complete this project is the “Introduction to Networking” course that all CS students are required to take. In that course, we learned about how to safely communicate between client and server devices across a network. For our project, we will be communicating within a local network so this knowledge will be used. Finally, the “Python Programming” course will be very important toward the completion of this project. In the python course, I learned how to properly use the programming language. Many of the libraries that we will be using for local, offline speech detection and text to speech are available in python, so we will be using python as our primary language. Additionally, this language can be run on a small device like a raspberry pie very easily which will be important when installing this software on a small, low-cost device.

My professional work experience over the past few years will also be beneficial toward working on this project. Working first at the Kroger Company as an iOS Developer, I learned how to collaborate with a large team of software developers on a single project. This includes using git, leveraging features like merge requests to make sure that the project’s version control is used properly. After working as a software developer, I had the opportunity to work as a Digital Product Manager at Kroger. In this position, I was responsible for identifying new features for the company’s app and website and wrote user stories and acceptance criteria to define the new features. These skills will be critical for our team’s success during the planning stages, and I hope to take the lead on writing user stories using the knowledge that I have built up working as a product manager.

I am very motivated to take on the challenge of making my own voice assistant. First, I feel like voice assistant devices are awesome for the functionality and ease of use that they provide, but I’ve been apprehensive about installing one into my own apartment because of security concerns. By building my own solution that keeps my voice data on the local internet only, I will feel much more comfortable to run a voice assistant device. Next, I think that this project fits my skill set very well. Between my ability to write great user stories and acceptance criteria at work, or my personal involvement in python projects at Hackathons, I think that my skills will let me be a big contributor during this project. I’m also excited to learn more about local networking. I’ve always wanted to set up my own home server and setting up a client and server application for this project that run on the local network will help me to gain and grow those networking skills. Finally, I’m very motivated to work with the other people involved with this project. Alex and Ethan have been friends of mine in CS for years, and it will be exciting to collaborate with them throughout the year. Additionally, Dr. Franco has been one of my favorite professors over the years at UC, and I think he will give us excellent feedback regarding the security and privacy aspects of our design.

The preliminary approach for getting this project working will be to use python to create a client and server application. The client will be very light weight, meaning that it can be installed on any device from a low-power raspberry pi to a powerful desktop. From there, the data will be piped securely across the local network to a server application running on a more powerful piece of hardware. This will allow us to locally decipher the voice data of the user to determine what action should be taken. We will perform the action and send the result back to the client, which will then use text to speech to inform the user that the action was taken. Our initial idea is to run the client on a raspberry pi, with a speaker and microphone built into a small custom enclosure. In the end, I expect that our voice assistant will be functional, work quickly, and most importantly will be safe and secure to use. I will evaluate my own contributions toward the project by tracking my progress toward these outlined goals, and by making sure that I attend all group meetings.


---

[⭠ Previous Page](06-ppt-slideshow.md) | [Next Page ⭢](08-professional-biographies.md)
