# Individual Capstone Assessment -- Alex Vennemeyer


The purpose of senior design is to make a product that has usefulness in the modern day, and showcases the skills I and my team members have learned over the course of our academic study. This project can also serve as a learning experience, in which we are able to take on additional challenges in order to improve our individual and team skills. The result of our efforts in this class will most likely be a great example of work that can be placed on a resume, and demonstrated to potential employers. In addition, if the end result of this project is promising, then it could potentially be extended to solve real world issues. Overall I feel that there is a lot of potential to create something that is both interesting and useful.


I have taken many college classes that will be helpful in the design of this project.one such class is CS 4065 Computer Networks and CS . My planned project will involve pieces of software communicating over a network, and the concepts taught in that class will be helpful in implementing networked communication. Another Class that has been helpful is CS 2021 Python Programming. This class taught introductory python, and gave a good introduction to using the language for personal projects, or automated tools. The skills learned in that class will be directly applied in this project, since my group has elected to use python as the language for the software portion of our project. I also plan to utilize general knowledge from my Operating Systems (EECE 4029), Data Structures (CS 2028C), and Algorithms (CS 4071) classes.


I have also had the opportunity to learn a lot of helpful knowledge from my semesters as a co-op student. During my first internship at Western & Southern Financial Group, I had some great experience with agile development. My team also worked closely with the business customers of our product, and as a result I was able to see a lot of the business context of the development work being done. This context and operations knowledge will help my ability to contribute to the team organization, and product ideation process. While Co-oping at Quest Global Services, I did a lot of automation and tool development with python. This gave me  experience with python and application design that will be very relevant to this project. My most recent Co-Op at ICR inc has given me some great experience dealing with networks, as well as some great mentorship in general development practice. I also have been able to develop a security perspective on my development that will be useful in addition to my other skills


A big motivation for this project was to create something that filled a gap in the current tech ecosystem. To this end we settled on the Idea of a Voice Assistant. While there are several voice assistants on the market from the big companies in the tech world, none of these options are open source, and most of them are hosted on the cloud. While this is not a bad thing on it’s own. There is a severe conflict of interest. Personal voice assistants must be listening for the user's voice at all times, and thus are recording in most rooms of a user’s home. In addition, any activity initiated through the voice assistant has the opportunity to be tracked. Furthermore the most popular companies that are responsible for these assistants like Amazon and Google are companies that have built significant portions of their business around the monetization of data. Because of this, there is no incentive for these companies to respect user privacy. In fact, there is a powerful incentive for these companies to completely ignore user privacy. In response to this issue, the members of this senior design group have set out to create an open source voice assistant that can be hosted locally by the user, and can provide the kind of trustworthy and secure service that we desire in a home automation ecosystem.


The goal for this project will be to create an initial prototype of this voice assistant system and provide a software developer’s kit for those who wish to develop applications on it. In order to manage project scope and determine adequate division of work. This group will use user stories and an agile project development methodology to define and manage tasks. Furthermore, the group has set up a weekly meeting time in order to have regular checking and discussions about the progress of the project. Using these methods, the group intends to have a working prototype of the system along with the infrastructure to develop 3rd party applications for our system by the end of the project.