## Hocker Capstone Assessment

For our senior design project, we will be creating a privacy focused, open source voice assistant. We realized that every one of our group members was uncomfortable with the way prominent voice assistants are able to capture our voices while we have little control over what happens to those recordings. We determined that the best solution to this problem would be to design a voice assistant that would operate exclusively on local hardware. Making our code open source will also allow for users to examine the code base and verify the trustworthiness of the code. Lastly, we decided that making an SDK or API will allow more technologically advanced users to expand on the voice assistant themselves, potentially adding custom functionality or functionality that our small team may not get to implement. 

This project will incorporate elements from several different classes that I have taken during my time here at UC. Running voice processing may be best done on a local server versus local hardware and this could require me to utilize knowledge I learned in CS4065, Computer Networks. Since we may decide to use a Raspberry pi, learning basic Python in CS2021, Python Programming, may also come in handy. Perhaps the most useful class will be EECE3093C, Software Engineering, where we were taught how to plan and execute software projects. Seeing as a lot of this may be a learning experience, proper planning and research will be vital. Software Engineering also discussed best teamwork practices that will need to be used to keep coordination.

My co-op experiences have taught me the most about how to function in a team environment. I just finished my fifth co-op, having completed two as a PLC engineering intern at Honeywell Intelligrated and three as a software engineering intern at Northrop Grumman. Through all of these different co-ops I have been mixed into different teams and types of projects. Moving around allowed me to work with different personalities and technologies. The ability to be comfortable working in new environments with new people was something I have greatly improved upon since my first internship. My software engineering skills I learned during these experiences will certainly help as well, but it is the ability to adapt to different project members, requirements and technologies that I find will be the most applicable skills I will use for this project.

This project excites us because it fills a need for a product we all want in our lives. We all shared a desire to feel secure while using a voice assistant and this seems like the best way to feel secure. Being given the chance to create it and shape it the way we want to is very exciting. Our approach to designing this product will entail careful planning and research prior to implementation. We have already begun researching hardware requirements and the existing architecture of other voice assistants. Making the right desicions in the current stage of the project is crucial to our long term success.

At the end of this project, we hope to have a working voice assistant running on our local hardware. The success of this project will be determined by how secure we feel using the product and whether or not its functionality is good enough to earn our usage. This will involve implementing some functionalities we want first, and then implementing other commmon usages. For it to be functional, it must have enough usages to warrant the effort required to set it up. Personally, I want to feel like I contributed to the project not only equally, but in a way that made my contribution unique. This could be something such as a unique feature or implementation I made.  

        

