## Hocker Spring Self Assessment

My individual contribution to our senior design project, Safe Assistant, largely centered around speech processing.  At the start of development, I worked heavily on speech processing by utilizing the DeepSpeech open source library. This required the use of many of my previous skills. One of those such skills was my ability to work with Python libraries that I first learned in CS2021, Python Programming. Reading documentation and discovering how to interact with new libraries was a skill I had to lean heavily on. Additionally, I had struggles with working on a Raspberry Pi which utilizes a different architecture than most computers. This forced me to complete extensive research on compatabilites and how to modify or use libraries properly. In particular, this applied to my use of the Snowboy hotword detection library, which I had to make some slight modifications to to get it to work properly. 

Dealing with these obstacles involved lots of research, a skill that I have developed over several different co-op experiences and my coursework. When faced with a new challenge such as architecture compatabilites, I had to make sure to dive into forums and documentation and think critically as to how to put this information together in a meaningful way. After getting hotword and speech detection to wokr properly, I view this as my biggest success and a skill I improved upon that will greatly benefit me in my future endeavors. This project allowed me to realize growth in my devlopment skills and left me with a sense of accomplishment with my work.    

At the end of development our group was successfully able to implement a secure voice assistant. Safe Assistant processes hotword and speech offline, sends processed speech to a server, processes intent, and eventually returns the proper output for Safe Assistant to speak back to the user.  We stuck well to the goals we set out to achieve, but were constantly modifying our timelines and and expectations to fit our development speed. This was a project planning skill we developed during our bi-weekly meetings. We found these meetings helped to keep us on track and ensure we were on the same page, which was particularly helpful when we discovered the need to split up tasks. Due to our constant communication, we were able to combine our individual aspects of the project  on time and with few issues.

Looking back on the project, I felt our group utilized communication to our advantage, allowing us to achieve our goals on time. We learned to trust each other to finish our individual assignments and I believe this led to virtually equal contributions. We spoke to our advisor and used his feedback as well to help drive us in the right direction. Hearing each other's ideas and being open to them made development and planning a smooth process. I  would like to give a special shoutout to Brendan who was able to modify our source code to work with my hotword implementation in the last days of the project. He was working on a tight deadline and having this feature integrated allowed for our demonstration to feel more complete. In conclusion, I would like to thank my team members  and advisor for their efforts, including great communication and efforts to drive consistent and timely development.

